---
layout: post
title:	"Caffeine"
---

Caffeine
====================

We like coffee. Not just software engineers, or even the larger class of technology professionals, but humanity as a whole likes coffee. We like caffeine so much that we've invented all sorts of increasingly ridiculous energy drinks to get it into our system.

I am no exception to this. I'm usually a pretty heavy coffee drinker. There have been points, either when I'm exceptionally busy or exceptionally stressed out, where I've probably consumed around a gallon of coffee daily. Make a pot in the morning to fill my thermos with, have some at the Keuring machine every hour-ish, afternoon coffee break with a few colleagues, make another pot when I get in, and fall asleep drinking it while watching TV. It was pretty ridiculous.

Is this caffeine fixation a bad thing? I don't think it is. I think the issue is when you drink so much coffee or energy drinks that you're no longer aware of how much caffeine you're putting into your system. 

This definitely was the case for me. Usually it's a little, but I've had times where I'll be at a diner at 8-9 P.M., order some coffee, and then not be able to sleep for 5-6 hours. While I can operate on this (our society is perpetually sleep-deprived, if you didn't know), I am by no means feeling my best when I do.

I'm dialing down my own caffeine consumption. I'm going to only drink coffee in the morning, and limit it to 18 ounces, because that's easy to measure out with my French press. After noon, I make do with tea. If I'm going to a coffeeshop with someone after noon, I'll get tea. 

Right now I'm not going to formally record this. The idea is promising for future projects, and I'm currently using it to record my weightlifting (I just began Starting Strength). But I'm extremely familiar with my own coffee consumption habits.

So far it's been about 4 days. I've noticed my sleeping patterns have been evening out a bit. I usually go to sleep around 10:30 or 11, and wake up around 5:30. Even though 5:30's pretty early by my standards (I'm used to 6-7, depending on what I need to do before I leave for work) but I feel pretty good when I wake up. I don't feel the typical lack of energy to get out of bed that I used to, so I'm fine with it so far. Especially since we're approaching summer, so it's not all dark and gloomy out when I get out of bed.

I'll keep tabs on my caffeine intake and how I feel over the next few weeks.
